Restrict named server servernames (#5192)
jupyterhub/jupyterhub: docs/source/howto/upgrading-v6.md

(howto:upgrading-v6)=

# Upgrading to JupyterHub 6

This document describes considerations specific to the JupyterHub 6 upgrade.
For general upgrading tips, see the [docs on upgrading jupyterhub](upgrading).

You can see the [changelog](changelog) for more detailed information.

## Python version

JupyterHub 6 requires Python 3.10.
Make sure you have at least Python 3.10 in your user and hub environments before upgrading.

## Database upgrades

JupyterHub 6 include a database schema upgrade,
so you should backup your database and run `jupyterhub upgrade-db` after upgrading and before starting JupyterHub.

## Named server restrictions

Prior to JupyterHub 6 there were almost no restrictions on the naming of named servers.
Core JupyterHub components correctly handled these, but names with unsual characters caused problems for some extensions, or when interacting with external components.

JupyterHub 6 imposes strict limits on the naming of named servers:

- Between 1 and 32 characters

> - Consists of lowercase ASCII letters, digits, and zero or one hyphen (`-`)

Reviewer: why the limits on number of hyphens? And is this total or consecutive?

Author: I think this is out of date, it should be single hyphens are allowed.

- Must start with a lowercase letter
- Must end with a lowercase letter or digit

> A new field `display_name` means users can still provide an arbitrary name, separate from the server name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new field `display_name` means users can still provide an arbitrary name, separate from the server name used in APIs, URLs, etc.
```

### Web interface

Users can name a named server as normal.

> This will be used as the display_name, and if this doesn't comply with the above restriction a server name will be automatically generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will be used as the display_name, and if this doesn't comply with the above restriction, a safe server name will be automatically derived by stripping disallowed characters, truncating, as needed.
```
